==================
Bytewax
==================

`Bytewax <https://github.com/bytewax/bytewax>`_ is an OSS stream processing framework designed specifically for Python developers.
It allows users to build streaming data pipelines and real-time applications with capabilities similar to Flink, Spark, and Kafka Streams, while providing a friendly and familiar interface and 100% compatibility with the Python ecosystem. 

**You can leverage bytewax in combination with ydata-profiling to improve the quality of your streaming flows.**

Stream processing with Bytewax
-------------------------------

Using `built-in connectors <https://bytewax.io/blog/custom-input-connector>`_ or existing Python libraries, you can connect to real-time and streaming data sources (Kafka, RedPanda, WebSocket, etc.) and write transformed data out to various downstream systems (Kafka, parquet files, data lakes, etc.).

Bytewax `facilitates a Python first and data-centric experience to data streams <https://bytewax.io/blog/whywax>`_ and is purposely built for data engineers and data scientists. It allows users to build streaming data pipelines and real-time applications and create customizations necessary to meet their needs without having to learn and maintain JVM-based streaming platforms like Spark or Flink.

Bytewax is well suited for many use cases, namely `Embedding Pipelines For Generative AI <https://bytewax.io/blog/embedding-pipelines-for-generative-ai>`_, `Handling Missing Values in Data Streams <https://bytewax.io/guides/handling-missing-values>`_, `Using Language Models in a Streaming Context to Understand Financial Markets <https://bytewax.io/blog/LLM-in-streaming>`_, and more. For use case inspiration and more information like documentation, tutorials, and guides, feel free to `check the bytewax website <https://bytewax.io>`_.


Understand your Data in Real-Time with bytewax and ydata-profiling
-------------------------------------------------------------------

First, we need to install the bytewax and ydata-profiling packages (we recommend using a virtual environment for this):

.. code-block::
    
    pip install bytewax==0.16.2 ydata-profiling==4.3.1

We will use the `Environmental Sensor Telemetry Dataset <https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/garystafford/environmental-sensor-data-132k>`_ (License — CC0: Public Domain), which contains several measurements of temperature, humidity, carbon monoxide liquid petroleum gas, smoke, light, and motion from different IoT devices:

.. code-block::
    
    wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/bytewax/air-quality-sensor/main/data/iot_telemetry_data_1000


In a production environment, these measurements would be continuously generated by each device, and the input would look like what we expect in a streaming platform `such as Kafka <https://bytewax.io/guides/enriching-streaming-data>`_. Here, to simulate the context we would find with streaming data, we will read the data from the CSV file one line at a time and create a dataflow using bytewax. 

First, we make the necessary imports:

.. code-block:: python

    from datetime import datetime, timedelta, timezone
    
    from bytewax.dataflow import Dataflow
    from bytewax.connectors.stdio import StdOutput
    from bytewax.connectors.files import CSVInput
    from bytewax.testing import run_main


Then, we define our dataflow object. Afterwards, we will use a stateless map method where we pass in a function to convert the string to a datetime object and restructure the data to the format (device_id, data).
The map method will make the change to each data point in a stateless way. The reason we have modified the shape of our data is so that we can easily group the data in the next steps to profile data for each device separately rather than for all of the devices simultaneously.

.. code-block:: python

    flow = Dataflow()
    flow.input("simulated_stream", CSVInput("/content/iot_telemetry_data_1000"))

    # parse timestamp
    def parse_time(reading_data):
        reading_data["ts"] = datetime.fromtimestamp(float(reading_data["ts"]), timezone.utc)
        return reading_data


    flow.map(parse_time)
    
    # remap format to tuple (device_id, reading_data)
    flow.map(lambda reading_data: (reading_data['device'], reading_data))


Now we will take advantage of the stateful capabilities of bytewax to gather data for each device over a duration of time that we have defined. ydata-profiling expects a snapshot of the data over time, which makes the window operator the perfect method to use to do this.

In ydata-profiling, we are able to produce summarizing statistics for a dataframe which is specified for a particular context. For instance, in this example, we can produce snapshots of data referring to each IoT device or to particular time frames:


.. code-block:: python

    from bytewax.window import EventClockConfig, TumblingWindow

    # This is the accumulator function, and outputs a list of readings
    def acc_values(acc, reading):
        acc.append(reading)
        return acc


    # This function instructs the event clock on how to retrieve the
    # event's datetime from the input.
    def get_time(reading):
        return reading["ts"]

  
    # Configure the `fold_window` operator to use the event time.
    cc = EventClockConfig(get_time, wait_for_system_duration=timedelta(seconds=30))

    # And a tumbling window
    align_to = datetime(2020, 1, 1, tzinfo=timezone.utc)
    wc = TumblingWindow(align_to=align_to, length=timedelta(hours=1))

    flow.fold_window("running_average", cc, wc, list, acc_values)

    flow.inspect(print)


After the snapshots are defined, leveraging ydata-profiling is as simple as calling the ProfileReport for each of the dataframes we would like to analyze:

.. code-block:: python

    import pandas as pd
    from ydata_profiling import ProfileReport

    def profile(device_id__readings):
        print(device_id__readings)
        device_id, readings = device_id__readings
        start_time = readings[0]['ts'].replace(minute=0, second=0, microsecond=0).strftime('%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S')
        df = pd.DataFrame(readings)
        profile = ProfileReport(
            df,
            tsmode=True,
            sortby="ts",
            title=f"Sensor Readings - device: {device_id}"
        )

        profile.to_file(f"Ts_Profile_{device_id}-{start_time}.html")
        return f"device {device_id} profiled at hour {start_time}"

    flow.map(profile)


In this example we are writing the images out to local files as part of a function in a map method. These could be reported out via a messaging tool or we could save them to some remote storage in the future. Once the profile is complete, the dataflow expects some output so we can use the built-in `StdOutput` to print the device that was profiled and the time it was profiled at that was passed out of the profile function in the map step:

.. code-block:: python

    flow.output("out", StdOutput())


There are multiple ways to execute Bytewax dataflows. In this example, we use the same local machine, but Bytewax can also run on multiple Python processes, across multiple hosts, in a `Docker container <https://bytewax.io/docs/deployment/container>`_, using a `Kubernetes cluster <https://bytewax.io/docs/deployment/k8s-ecosystem>`_, and `more <https://bytewax.io/docs/getting-started/execution#multiple-workers-manual-cluster>`_. In this example, we'll continue with a local setup, but we encourage you to check `waxctl <https://bytewax.io/docs/deployment/waxctl>`_ which manages Kubernetes dataflow deployments once your pipeline is ready to transition to production. 

Assuming we are in the same directory as the file with the dataflow definition, we can run it using:

.. code-block::

    python -m bytewax.run ydata-profiling-streaming:flow


We can then use the profiling reports to validate the data quality, check for changes in schemas or data formats, and compare the data characteristics between different devices or time windows.

We can further leverage the `comparison report functionality <https://ydata-profiling.ydata.ai/docs/master/pages/use_cases/comparing_datasets.html>`_ that highlights the differences between two data profiles in a straightforward manner, making it easier for us to detect important patterns that need to be investigated or issues that have to be addressed:

.. code-block:: python

    snapshot_a_report = ProfileReport(df_a, title="Snapshot A")
    snapshot_b_report = ProfileReport(df_b, title="Snapshot B")

    comparison_report =snapshot_a_report(snapshot_b_report)
    comparison_report.to_file("comparison_report.html")


Now you're all set to start exploring your data streams! Bytewax takes care of all the processes necessary to handle and structure data streams into snapshots, which can then be summarized and compared with ydata-profiling through a comprehensive report of data characteristics.